# wet market

I retch at the fishy smell filling up every edge and corner of the market, while watching out for suspicious puddles of what is hopefully just water on the floor. Ugh, why did I agree to come to the wet market with my grandmother? I could be comfortably lying on the sofa at home, catching up on the latest episode of Code of Law, but here I am, surrounded by a sea of old aunties budging their way through and the piercing calls of stall owners trying to attract people to their stalls. Lugging Grandma's heavy trolley of groceries, I push my way through the crowd to try to keep up with her petite figure, who seems to be oblivious to my discomfort.

Suddenly, my grandmother comes to a stop in front of a seafood stall. I pinch my nose to avoid the disgusting smell. Facing us are trays of wide-eyed fish spread on mountains of crushed ice, while behind the storeowner are blue tanks of grey prawns desperately swimming around in clearly overcrowded conditions. A few other old ladies are also standing in front of the trays, carefully selecting their fish. Grandma picks up a fish covered in red scales and opens the gills, squinting her eyes to examine it. Ew, why is she touching the fish? Isn't it really slimy?  My face must have been one of obvious absolute disgust, because the stall owner laughs, seeming to read my mind, he comments, " Ah girl, you never see fish before is it? " My face flushes with embarrassment as I scratch my head, forcing out awkward laughter. My grandmother looks up, smiling, and explains to the stall owner, " Ah Soon, meet my granddaughter Mei Chen. She is Ling's younger daughter. Her first time at the market." My grandma then launches into animated conversation with the stall owner about the fish, and even bargains for a cheaper price. Like old friends, the two happily chat away while I stand at the side awkwardly with nothing to do. I watch as the stall owner first lays the fish on a yellow measuring scale, then proceeds to wrap it in newspaper finally bagging it up in a red plastic bag and handing it over the counter to my grandmother. 

She holds up the bag proudly, beaming with happiness at the success of her bargain. Next we soldier on to the vegetable stall, where baskets of green vegetables are displayed on stools. My grandmother then bends down to pick up a bundle of leafy green vegetables with flat whitish stems, tied together by a red rubber band. I notice some brown spots of what seems to be soil on the pure-whit stem, grossed out at it. She brings it up to for me to get a closer look. I notice some brown spots of what seems to be dirt contrasting with the white stem, grossed out at it. " Ah girl, see, this is Xiao Bai Cai, your favourite. Ah ma buying this today to cook for you," my grandmother explains. Suddenly the vegetable doesn't seem as gross anymore. Touched that she knows my favourites, I let out a huge grin, nodding my head. " Yay, thank you Ah ma. You're the best!" She then continues on to have a lighthearted conversation with the stall owners, an old sweet looking couple, yet again introducing me to them.

Next comes the noodle stall. On a white folding table, lies rows and rows of bags of noodles. This time, my grandma turns to me and says, " Ah Girl, since you here, I let you choose what noodle you want Ah ma to cook today." Filled with excitement, I skim over the different bags of noodles. My eyesight lands on a bag of yellow noodles, my favourite kind. Pointing to the noodle, I exclaim, " Ah Ma, can we buy this one?" My grandmother then picks up that bag, engaging in a chat about me to the shopkeepers, a middle-aged woman and her helper, her millenial daughter. Embarrassed by the childhood stories my grandmother tells about me, I simply stand at the side. 

All too soon, it is time to go home. I am somewhat surprised at the feeling of disappointment I feel as I leave the place, as I didn't expect to warm up to it. Coming to the wet market had really changed my impressions of it. Sure, maybe it is crowded and noisy and not too hygienic, but it is also a place of warm people and unique first-hand experiences. It also allowed me to better understand my grandmother and her daily life, and even let me bond with her. 
